>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So now we have covered
really components at a very basic level.
The next kinda step for this is templates.
And so, we actually had some interesting
conversations over lunch about even
some of the binding syntax and
what some of that stuff means.
And so,
this is what we're gonna dig in to next.
Now, I do see a question here.
Should each component
have it's own module?
And to that, I would say no.
I think that using modules,
well, so
I'm presuming he means like NG Module.
Or that's the question.
If it's NG Module, I would say no.
I would group them by, maybe feature or
features, a feature set.
But from there, so the question is, will
I ever need to pick this up and move it?
Then, that might be a good
indicator that like, okay,
I need to break this
into a separate module.
Even with routing tables,
they say, break that out.
Just, as you're composing things,
it's better to isolate that.
But as a whole,
there's some varying views,
but I tend to be fairly liberal
about my use of NG module.
Like, is this a distinct feature that
I will ever need to pick up and move,
or will it fall into, again,
also if you're doing it lazy loading,
then it will need to be in a module.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And yes,
there will only ever be one made module,
so you have to bootstrap to a module.
And so, in this case, it's at module.
So you always have one main module and
one top level component.
So that's the entry point and then from
there everything else is composed.
So if you can imagine kind
of a component tree where
really the module just kind of holds that,
but
then within that you have
your top level component
that everything else is attached to.
Any more questions?
Are we good?
Okay, so template fundamentals,
we're gonna talk about property binding.
Event binding, two-way binding, local
template variables, attribute directives,
structural directives and
the safe navigation operator for fun.
This used to be called the Elvis Operator,
I liked it so much more before they
changed the name.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So it's our friend.
The anatomy of a component.
And so, really,
we have two main styles of binding.
We are binding to events to pass
information in to the component, or
we're binding to properties.
To essentially pass
information into the template.
And then, between our template and
out class,
we have property and event in the middle.
So that's very much middle of the road.
And then, you have your
string interpolation binding.
And so, there is a question
that comes up like well,
where would I use property binding
versus string interpolation binding?
And there is this area where it
kind of just doesn't matter.
They say generally,
if you use interpolation binding,
if you're binding to a simple value,
that's not going to change.
But other than that, it's probably
better to go for property binding.
And so, really, actually binding to
strings is actually the other thing.
If it's a string, you need to display it,
then that's where that goes.
And then, two-way binding,
which is essentially the combination
of property and event binding.
Put those together and we have
a two-way street or two-way binding.
So let's talk about property binding.
So this really flows data from
the component to an element and
this is created with brackets.
Now, there is kind of
a long hand form to this.
So if somebody's completely
offended by kind of this
syntax that's being introduced,
you can actually do this long hand and
you use simply attach bind hyphen
to whatever you want to bind.
So the canonical form of
[property] is bind-property.
I personally have never used this,
but there could be some cases
where you would want to do that.
And as well, there are some special cases
to property binding, or do you actually
wanna bind to attributes, classes,
or styles, and it looks like this.
So if you wanna basically bind
to an attribute property that
doesn't exist on the element,
so this happens with SVG and
different things you just attach ATTR for
attribute dot property class.
class.className.
Styles.
style.styleName.
And so, for instance, and
example of this would be
if you wanted to bind to let's say like X.
The X property or the alpha property.
On an element, you could do style.x,
style.alpha or whatever it is opacity.
And then, as this basically property
changed in your component it
would then update essentially that
style property on that element.
So this is kinda some extensions that you
can do some kind of interesting things
with that.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: For instance, [SOUND].
So in this case, we just want to bind or
change the color of
the text within the span.
So we can use style.color.
This is kinda the special binding syntax.
So english just having to do some
additional things under the hood,
but that counts for attributes,
styles, and classes.
So Event Binding, data from
the element back into the component.
So parentheses, and
the canonical form of this is on-event,
so on click, on mouse event, etc.
And then, you can also pass, if you
actually wanna pull dom information or
information about the dom within itself,
it's carried within the event parameter.
Also, if you pass it in.
So if you put something specific in there,
then you can pull that out as well, but
essentially Target event
information's carried
in the $event parameter.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
here we have click event, and
if we wanted to pass this in,
I'll just put this in here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Like this.
So within our component if we wanted to
actually get information off the ($event),
then we would just accept that parameter.
And then,
we could do interesting things with it.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: I have a question about can
you change style?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So this is good for
really like single properties
of classes and styles.
And they specifically
mention this in Angular Docs.
So for instance, you wanted to target for
instance a single class,
then you could just use essentially
property binding to that.
But if you need to chain multiple classes
or styles then you would use NG class.
And that allows you to do that.
It gives you more control.
And so, that's what that's for.
It's this is good for
really a single style.
If not,
then you're going to want to do NG class.
That'll allow you to toggle actually
multiple classes based on some
condition.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Combination
of property and event bindings, used
in conjunction with ngModel generally.
So this is where you're going to see this.
I'm going to put this
little nugget out here.
That you can, first and
foremost, create custom events.
You can also create custom essentially
attributes that you bind to,
the inputs and outputs.
And there is a way to
create custom two-way data
binding within your child component
to your parent component.
And so, we may get into that tomorrow when
we get into component driven architecture.
But, for instance,
when I change this property in the child I
want it to automatically
update on the parent.
And when I change it on the parent I wanna
automatically update it on the child.
And there is a way to do that.
Coincidentally, by combining N input and
an output
with one semantic change, that will then
indicate like this is to a data binding.
So you do something totally custom and
then when you wrap it in prints and box,
then now it's 2a.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Here we go,
so this is generally used with NG model,
this is where you gonna see this.
And we have a dynamic value if we type it
then it will update in the bottom here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So let's do,
you know what, let's take one quick break
and let me show some code real quick.
Just so we're really anchoring this down.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So we go to
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Widgets component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's create.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I really like that
color one.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Color = blue.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then, a component.
Does it make sense
what i'm doing?
I'm simply saying I wanna bind this
color and style of this element.
To whatever this is right here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Interesting.
But let's go back, and
enter our code.
>> Speaker 2: Was
my color set to blue in the components?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So let me just put
these side by side real quick.
Hopefully this will.
Can we kind of see this here?
>> Speaker 2: There we go.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So in the template.
So we're just kinda freestyling here.
And then, over here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's
create a method setColor.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now, if we wanna
just set this color, to something else,
who need to, let's say capture and event.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Well,
what we can do here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's go
click,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
want to catch the click event on the ch1,
and
then we want to call setColor('red')
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Snap.
So this make sense what I've done?
I'm basically binding, I'm taking
a property from my component and
I'm binding it into my template so
that it renders.
Then, when I wanna capture
an event from the template,
I'm then using that to convey that
event back into my component.
Now, let's check out NG model.
So two-way data binding, so
this is where things can get interesting.
Or more interesting at least.
So I'm just gonna do horizontal rule and
then let's do an input.
And then, from here,
I'm just gonna use ngModel and
I'm gonna set it to myColor.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Now,
what's gonna happen here
is that you can see
here in the text its
rendering as eye color.
It's not being evaluated.
Why is that?
>> Speaker 3: You don't have the brackets.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Cuz I don't have
the brackets.
So if we go back here,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Let's do one other
thing real quick.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Just so
we can kinda keep track of this.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: myColor.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so, now it's being
evaluated,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But
let's see what happens.
So I've just clicked it and so
it changed it at the component level and
it updated the input and it updated
just the string interpolation binding.
So then the question is when I go here and
I type it, what's happening?
Well, absolutely nothing because we're
not actually conveying the fact that this
input has changed back to the component.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: But
we can do that,
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: By making
a banana in a box.
[SOUND] And
now what we're saying is pull the property
from the component into the template, but
when it changes in the template convey
that value back to the component.
So let's go here, blue, red,
get back here.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
you can notice that when I change this,
then it updates.
Red, green, whatever.
I'm actually wondering what if I go F, F.
Holy cramoly.
That's pretty cool.
But I think really if we
look in this microscope,
we can kinda see what's happening.
>> Speaker 2: Caitlin was
asking a question about
practice of using in line
style.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Generally I will
not inline styles, this is for
demonstration purposes.
As well as there are cases where this
would make sense if you wanted to,
for instance, dealing with an SVG element.
I think there's cases to do that.
I would definitely not make this
the bedrock of your UI experience,
is binding to it.
I think in general inlining
styles as a whole is,
I think post-production you can
do some inlining in the page.
But as a whole, I would not do that.
I would very sparingly.
So I'm not gonna start out and do that.
But there are cases where dynamically
you want to set something.
And so, you're not actually
applying it with a reusable style.
And a lot of times I won't
do it at the style level.
But I will do it at the class level.
So I've already have this predefined
class that I wanna toggle.
And this is much more common.
So this is more of for
demonstration purposes.
And there are some cases where you
might wanna toggle a single color.
And it's so simple,
then I think that would be okay.
Karen, you're absolutely right.
You wanna use this judiciously.
And I don't know,
what are some more colors?
>> Speaker 2: Medium aquamarine.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Is that all one word?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Man, boom.
>> Speaker 2: Tomato.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Tomato.
>> Speaker 3: You can even do.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Wait, is
that actually a color.
>> Speaker 2: Yes.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I thought we were
singing a show tunes here.
>> Speaker 3: You can even
do RGBA.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Really?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, I'm sure anything
that CSS will do.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: I mean if it's
a string neither is going to
evaluate it so that's pretty cool.
So does anybody have any questions about
what's happening in this code block here?
You feel pretty good about it?
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All
right.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Moving
along.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
now we can see that when
we change NG model,
it's going to update dynamic value,
which is going to update the component.
And because we're now
binding here in the span
it's going to update it at the bottom,
as well.